right time to get serious
with one of our trademark crash tests
this is essential viewing for anyone
about to buy a second-hand car ah the
classifieds the start of many a dream
who hasn't convinced themselves they
need an old Bentley Turbo R or a cheap
Lotus Elise or even an ex jimmy greaves
BMW 7-series
but the reality is most people end up
homing in on the more sensible option a
good honest reliable family hatch in
fact there's one for sale right here at
a bargain price and frankly I'd be daft
not to buy it so I'm going to Ford Focus
72 thousand miles
petrol one careful lady owner nonsmoker
deal result got this clean Ford Focus
good color really looks the part X reg
mm plate at an irresistable price of 2
grand
life is good except you know when they
play music like this something Bad's
about to happen
two identical cars in a head-on
collision of 30 miles per hour the other
car crashed as nature intended with the
crumple zones working effectively to
absorb the crash energy there's a strong
likelihood the passengers could simply
dust themselves down and walk away but
with mine it was a different story
my car has performed substantially worse
I mean look at the intrusion inside the
cabin here my knees are up to my chin
nearly and the front of the car looks
like it's been constructed of old crisp
packets if it wasn't for the magic of
television I might not be talking to you
right now so what's the difference why
did my car do so badly compared to the
other one my car may have looked perfect
but it was once an insurance write-off
and was repaired with what the experts
call severe economic restraint now hang
on let's go back and see where things
went wrong
my focus looks absolutely fine but if
you look closely and you know exactly
what you're looking for you can
sometimes tell where there are cars
previously been in an accident
QR friendly engineer from the RAC to
tell us what to miss right so can you
tell me whether or not this cars
actually ever been in an accident yeah
okay if we take a look up at the chassis
leg here
we can see around there that there's
actually a well that we can see that the
front chassis leg has been changed also
the main concern I have here is that
looking at the side of the chassis there
it looks as though it's been repaired
with filler which is obviously not a
structural repair and not acceptable
what sort of accident is it previously
been involved oh the vehicle has
obviously been in a full-frontal
accident which is damaged both major
chassis legs so it's crumpled the
crumple zones yes and they've just been
torched off they've basically been cut
off and others have been welded on which
will obviously infringe the integrity
the integrity of the vehicle from the
top it is absolutely huge isn't very
nice so tell me if I have an accident
now with the car as it is what's going
to happen the possibility is that
they've gone a crumple too early they're
supposed to crumple in a set manner so
that the occupants in the in the
compartment in the passenger shell yet
are protected on the other hand if it's
been over engineered and it doesn't
crumple then these both of these chassis
legs will actually push into the
passenger compartment and injure any
occupants inside
what makes this tale even more chilling
is that just a couple of days ago two
separate garages issued our car with a
valid MOT having a look at the vehicle
now and seeing the major damage which
it's had to the both chassis legs and
particularly the filler repair that
we've seen on that leg I wouldn't
consider that MOT that the car was
deemed fit for the road even though it's
not fit to crash now how many of us take
a look at a full MOT in theatres peace
of mind well with the help of our crash
testing mates at Myra we might make you
think again
the forces involved even if it's
relatively slow speed are absolutely
sickly
gracious me no no I
I saw them move my Raja car that's
stated there so it's definite there's
definitely more crumpling going on on
that car you can see the wheels have
been pushed back further right I'm gonna
get in and demonstrate to you what it
would be like if I was in the crash and
I can tell you that my feet would have
been like this on the pedals and as you
can see assuming I actually survived I'd
probably be crippled for life
but the other focus on the other hand
has remained remarkably intact all of
the dashboard on the pedal simply is as
God intended it to me and the experts
tell me that my focus crumpled some
three and a half inches extra that extra
intrusion into the cabin is the
difference between walking away and
being wheeled away so what can be done
well clearly you need to check a car's
history before buying which is pretty
easy by simply picking up the phone and
paying about thirty pounds you can get a
comprehensive vehicle identity check and
all you need is a registration number a
company like HP I will tell you whether
or not the cars ever had any outstanding
finance on it whether it's ever been
declared a full write-off whether it's
unfit for resale or whether it's ever
been nicked
the numbers are frightening everyday
they identify 30 cars for sale that are
actually stolen a quarter of the cars
they check out turn out to have
outstanding finance and four out of
every 100 have been written off for the
phone numbers of these different
services check out the fifth gear
website this car was actually for sale a
couple of weeks ago now I don't usually
buy into all this scare monger II stuff
but it is genuinely shocking to think
that if it weren't for the sake of one
phone call
some family could be driving around in
that car as we speak